docs/reference/environment.md, before:

# Environment Variables

Reference for all environment variables supported by clinvk.

## Variables

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `CLINVK_BACKEND` | Default backend | `claude` |
| `CLINVK_CLAUDE_MODEL` | Claude model | `claude-opus-4-5-20251101` |
| `CLINVK_CODEX_MODEL` | Codex model | `o3` |
| `CLINVK_GEMINI_MODEL` | Gemini model | `gemini-2.5-pro` |

## Usage Examples

### Set Default Backend

```bash
export CLINVK_BACKEND=codex
clinvk "implement feature"  # Uses codex
```

### Set Model per Backend

```bash
export CLINVK_CLAUDE_MODEL=claude-sonnet-4-20250514
export CLINVK_CODEX_MODEL=o3-mini

clinvk -b claude "complex task"  # Uses claude-sonnet-4-20250514
clinvk -b codex "quick task"     # Uses o3-mini
```

### Temporary Override

```bash
CLINVK_BACKEND=gemini clinvk "explain this"
```

## Priority

Environment variables have medium priority:

1. **CLI Flags** (highest)
2. **Environment Variables**
3. **Config File**
4. **Defaults** (lowest)

Example:

```bash
export CLINVK_BACKEND=codex
clinvk -b claude "prompt"  # Uses claude (CLI flag wins)
```

## Shell Configuration

### Bash

Add to `~/.bashrc` or `~/.bash_profile`:

```bash
export CLINVK_BACKEND=claude
export CLINVK_CLAUDE_MODEL=claude-opus-4-5-20251101
```

### Zsh

Add to `~/.zshrc`:

```zsh
export CLINVK_BACKEND=claude
export CLINVK_CLAUDE_MODEL=claude-opus-4-5-20251101
```

### Fish

Add to `~/.config/fish/config.fish`:

```fish
set -gx CLINVK_BACKEND claude
set -gx CLINVK_CLAUDE_MODEL claude-opus-4-5-20251101
```

## Per-Directory Configuration

Use direnv for project-specific settings:

```bash
# .envrc
export CLINVK_BACKEND=codex
export CLINVK_CODEX_MODEL=o3
```

## CI/CD Usage

### GitHub Actions

```yaml
jobs:
  build:
    env:
      CLINVK_BACKEND: codex
      CLINVK_CODEX_MODEL: o3
    steps:
      - run: clinvk "generate tests"
```

### Docker

```dockerfile
ENV CLINVK_BACKEND=claude
ENV CLINVK_CLAUDE_MODEL=claude-opus-4-5-20251101
```

Or at runtime:

```bash
docker run -e CLINVK_BACKEND=codex clinvk "prompt"
```

## See Also

- [Configuration Reference](configuration.md)
- [config command](commands/config.md)

Commit message:

docs: align documentation with actual API implementation (#20)
## Summary

Align documentation with actual CLI/API implementation:

### API Response Fields
- Change `.result` → `.output` across all examples (matches actual
`PromptResponseBody.Output`)
- Update session response structure with actual fields (`last_used`,
`working_dir`, `turn_count`, `token_usage`, etc.)

### Environment Variables
- Fix `CLINVK_DEFAULT_BACKEND` → `CLINVK_BACKEND` (matches `config.go`)
- Add per-backend model env vars: `CLINVK_CLAUDE_MODEL`,
`CLINVK_CODEX_MODEL`, `CLINVK_GEMINI_MODEL`

### CLI Flags
- Fix `-o json` → `--json` in examples

### SDK URLs
- Fix Anthropic SDK base URL: `/anthropic` → `/anthropic/v1`

### Approval/Sandbox Mode Clarifications
- Clarify that `approval_mode` controls prompting behavior, not action
permissions
- Add note that `sandbox_mode` may not map to Claude CLI flags

### Error Format
- Update error response format to RFC 7807 Problem Details (via Huma)
- Remove outdated error codes table

### Streaming Support
- Document that streaming (`stream: true`) is now supported for
OpenAI-compatible endpoint

### Backends Response
- Simplify `/api/v1/backends` response (remove `enabled`,
`default_model`)

## Testing
- Docs-only changes
- Verified against actual code in `internal/server/handlers/models.go`
and `internal/config/config.go`

docs/reference/environment.md, after:

# Environment Variables

Reference for all environment variables supported by clinvk.

## Variables

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `CLINVK_BACKEND` | Default backend | `claude` |
| `CLINVK_CLAUDE_MODEL` | Claude model | (backend default) |
| `CLINVK_CODEX_MODEL` | Codex model | (backend default) |
| `CLINVK_GEMINI_MODEL` | Gemini model | (backend default) |

!!! note
    Only the variables above are explicitly supported. Other configuration keys are not currently mapped to environment variables.

## Usage Examples

### Set Default Backend

```bash
export CLINVK_BACKEND=codex
clinvk "implement feature"  # Uses codex
```

### Set Model per Backend

```bash
export CLINVK_CLAUDE_MODEL=claude-sonnet-4-20250514
export CLINVK_CODEX_MODEL=o3-mini

clinvk -b claude "complex task"  # Uses claude-sonnet-4-20250514
clinvk -b codex "quick task"     # Uses o3-mini
```

### Temporary Override

```bash
CLINVK_BACKEND=gemini clinvk "explain this"
```

## Priority

Environment variables have medium priority:

1. **CLI Flags** (highest)
2. **Environment Variables**
3. **Config File**
4. **Defaults** (lowest)

Example:

```bash
export CLINVK_BACKEND=codex
clinvk -b claude "prompt"  # Uses claude (CLI flag wins)
```

## Shell Configuration

### Bash

Add to `~/.bashrc` or `~/.bash_profile`:

```bash
export CLINVK_BACKEND=claude
export CLINVK_CLAUDE_MODEL=claude-opus-4-5-20251101
```

### Zsh

Add to `~/.zshrc`:

```zsh
export CLINVK_BACKEND=claude
export CLINVK_CLAUDE_MODEL=claude-opus-4-5-20251101
```

### Fish

Add to `~/.config/fish/config.fish`:

```fish
set -gx CLINVK_BACKEND claude
set -gx CLINVK_CLAUDE_MODEL claude-opus-4-5-20251101
```

## Per-Directory Configuration

Use direnv for project-specific settings:

```bash
# .envrc
export CLINVK_BACKEND=codex
export CLINVK_CODEX_MODEL=o3
```

## CI/CD Usage

### GitHub Actions

```yaml
jobs:
  build:
    env:
      CLINVK_BACKEND: codex
      CLINVK_CODEX_MODEL: o3
    steps:
      - run: clinvk "generate tests"
```

### Docker

```dockerfile
ENV CLINVK_BACKEND=claude
ENV CLINVK_CLAUDE_MODEL=claude-opus-4-5-20251101
```

Or at runtime:

```bash
docker run -e CLINVK_BACKEND=codex clinvk "prompt"
```

## See Also

- [Configuration Reference](configuration.md)
- [config command](commands/config.md)
